readme.md, before:

# Frontend Mentor - Planets fact site solution

A solution by jefflangtech [Planets fact site challenge on Frontend Mentor](https://www.frontendmentor.io/challenges/planets-fact-site-gazqN8w_f).projects. 

## Table of contents

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [The challenge](#the-challenge)
  - [Screenshot](#screenshot)
  - [Links](#links)
- [My process](#my-process)
  - [Built with](#built-with)
  - [Step by step](#step-by-step)
  - [Continued development](#continued-development)
  - [Useful resources](#useful-resources)
- [Author](#author)


## Overview

### The challenge

Users should be able to:

- View the optimal layout for the app depending on their device's screen size
- See hover states for all interactive elements on the page
- Select and submit a number rating
- See the "Thank you" card state after submitting a rating

### Screenshot

![](./screenshot.jpg)

### Links

- Solution URL: [Add solution URL here](https://your-solution-url.com)
- Live Site URL: [https://jefflangtech.github.io/planet-facts/](https://jefflangtech.github.io/planet-facts/)

## My process

### Built with

- Semantic HTML5 markup
- CSS custom properties
- Flexbox
- DOM API: DocumentFragment

### Step by step

Total time: 9:16

1. Initial setup (0:25)
2. Design system (0:17)
3. Notes on the layout (0:34)

**Notes**
It looks like the overall layout of the widget is broken into 3 primary sections, and each one of them can be their own div. Perhaps one is the header, which will contain the request for feedback heading prior to submission, and then the confirmation image after submission. Then a message div, and the rating div.

In the request state everything is either left aligned or spaced evenly, and the rating div can be flex. In the thank you state the content is centered.

For mobile everything is sized down a little bit but the overall layout stays the same so it should be really straight-forward to make this work.

![Desktop Layout Notes](./desktop-layout-notes.jpg)
![Tablet Layout Notes](./tablet-layout-notes.jpg)
![Mobile Layout Notes](./mobile-layout-notes.jpg)

The star and the rating selectors, 1-5, exist inside the same type of circular container. The only difference would be that the rating selectors have a hover state and a selected state. It looks like the 'selected' state is supposed to be grey and the hover state is orange. I think what I might do is have an inactive class and an activated class, where the inactive class has a hover state while the activated class does not, and each one of those has the correct corresponding color schemes. Then, on click, its just a class toggle while the rating score itself can be stored elsewhere.

As far as the form itself, I wonder if I just use an existing HTML structure with all the styling removed so that it exists behind the scenes? I think semantically that makes the most sense so I'll probably do radio buttons...yep I'm implementing that with a submit input as well.

Let's see if any of this backfires later 😂

4. Basic layout with styles (1:20)
  - Planning this all out in advance worked so well. Also using an image overlay of the design as a layer to compare against (I just turned it off and on using a visibility rule) was critical to getting close to pixel perfect
5. Create form and styles (0:33)
6. Program form functionality (3:34)
7. Program form response content creation (2:37)
8. Responsive media queries (0:18)
9. Validation checks & readme updates (0:36)

### Continued development



### Useful resources

- [Example resource 1](https://www.example.com) - This helped me for XYZ reason. I really liked this pattern and will use it going forward.
- [Example resource 2](https://www.example.com) - This is an amazing article which helped me finally understand XYZ. I'd recommend it to anyone still learning this concept.

## Author

- Website - [JeffLangTech](https://jefflangtech.github.io/)
- Frontend Mentor - [@jefflangtech](https://www.frontendmentor.io/profile/jefflangtech)

Commit message:

Updated readme notes, added a preview image

readme.md, after:

# Frontend Mentor - Planets fact site solution

A solution by jefflangtech [Planets fact site challenge on Frontend Mentor](https://www.frontendmentor.io/challenges/planets-fact-site-gazqN8w_f). 

## Table of contents

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [The challenge](#the-challenge)
  - [Screenshot](#screenshot)
  - [Links](#links)
- [My process](#my-process)
  - [Built with](#built-with)
  - [Step by step](#step-by-step)
  - [Continued development](#continued-development)
  - [Useful resources](#useful-resources)
- [Author](#author)


## Overview

### The challenge

Users should be able to:

- View the optimal layout for the app depending on their device's screen size
- See hover states for all interactive elements on the page
- View each planet page and toggle between "Overview", "Internal Structure", and "Surface Geology"

### Screenshot

![](./preview.jpg)

### Links

- Solution URL: [Add solution URL here](https://your-solution-url.com)
- Live Site URL: [https://jefflangtech.github.io/planet-facts/](https://jefflangtech.github.io/planet-facts/)

## My process

### Built with

- Semantic HTML5 markup
- CSS custom properties
- Flexbox
- Grid
- DOM API: DocumentFragment

### Step by step

1. Initial setup (19:15)
2. Project plan (1:13)
3. Layout notes (3:03)
4. Setup design system (1:46)
5. HTML structure and preliminary validation tests (0:40)
6. Style desktop layout & secondary validation tests (2:56)
7. Style tablet layout (1:26)
8. Style mobile layout & basic drawer functionality (2:40)
9. Update readme for design notes (0:16)

*Style Notes*
This one appears complicated, and after styling all the layouts, while I'm happy with the end-result, not so happy with the state of my CSS. There are things in the design that just necessitate individual rules for each layout, like different padding widths for all three. The ones I found most difficult to work with were all the unique changes to the fonts, like letter-spacing. I do think I want to revisit those more challenging aspects of the CSS to see if I can't refactor, identifying patterns where I didn't see them before. And I do realize that with a more complex design like this one, I may just need to spend more time over each individual aspect, figuring out how each works, by itself as well as the whole.

![Desktop Layout Notes](./desktop-layout-notes.jpg)

![Tablet Layout Notes](./tablet-layout-notes.jpg)

![Mobile Layout Notes](./mobile-layout-notes.jpg)

I have about 600 lines of CSS and that just really seems excessive. I'll see what I can do about that after creating some functionality.

Also, the font they used is different on Google Fonts. I sourced the original but that definitely threw me off for a bit.

*Functionality notes*


### Continued development



### Useful resources

- [Example resource 1](https://www.example.com) - This helped me for XYZ reason. I really liked this pattern and will use it going forward.
- [Example resource 2](https://www.example.com) - This is an amazing article which helped me finally understand XYZ. I'd recommend it to anyone still learning this concept.

## Author

- Website - [JeffLangTech](https://jefflangtech.github.io/)
- Frontend Mentor - [@jefflangtech](https://www.frontendmentor.io/profile/jefflangtech)
